README.md, before:

# Handwritten Digit String Recognition

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/blob/master/.pre-commit-config.yaml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition)](https://github.com/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Introduction

In this project, I built a model to perform handwritten digit string recognition using synthetic data generated by concatenating digits from the MNIST dataset. Different overlapping rates and paddings were used to increase the generalizability of the model. Data augmentation (e.g., random scaling, rotation, shear) was also used during training to increase the divesity of the samples.

![Synthetic Data](images/synthetic_data.png)

I replicated the CRNN model proposed in [Shi, Bai & Yao (2015)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1507.05717.pdf), which uses a CNN as encoder and a bidirecitonal LSTM as decoder. I was able to achieve a test character error rate of 0.0114 and a test accuracy of 0.9865 (see the best run [here](https://wandb.ai/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/runs/3r47q0f5/)).

<img src="images/model_architecture.png" alt="Model Architecture" width="320">

I also created a Streamlit app, during which I learned some nuances involved in transferring image data from frontend to backend (encoding the image as base64 string in the frontend and then decoding it at the backend).

![Screenshot](images/screenshot.gif)

## Setup

Create a virtual environment.

```
make venv
```

Install dependencies.

```
make install-dev
```

## Usage

### Run an experiement

Example command to run an experiment:

```
python scripts/run_experiment.py \
    trainer.gpus=1 trainer.max_epochs=100 trainer.auto_lr_find=True \
    data.batch_size=128 data.num_workers=2 data.pin_memory=True \
    data.num_train=20000 data.num_val=2000 data.num_test=2000
```

Running `scripts/run_experiment.py` will download the MNIST dataset,  generate a synthetic dataset and train a CRNN model. The best model checkpoint will be uploaded to Weights & Biases (W&B) automatically (you will be asked to register or login to W&B before the training starts).

Configurations can be modified in `config.yaml` or in command line. See [Hydra's documentation](https://hydra.cc/docs/intro) to learn more.

Example command to download a trained model checkpoint from W&B

```
python scripts/download_checkpoint.py RUN_PATH
```

Replace RUN_PATH with the path of your run. The run path can be found in the W&B dashboard and should look something like `kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/3r47q0f5`

### Docker Image for AWS Lambda

Build a Docker image for AWS Lambda:

```
docker build -t handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition -f aws_lambda/Dockerfile .
```

Run the Docker image:

```
docker run -p 9000:8080 -it --rm handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition
```

Example command to test the API locally:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:9000/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{ "image": "data:image/png;base64,'$(base64 -i images/test_image.png)'" }'
```

## Acknowledgements

[Full Stack Deep Learning Spring 2021 Labs](https://github.com/full-stack-deep-learning/fsdl-text-recognizer-2021-labs/tree/main)

Commit message:

Update with more deployment information

README.md, after:

# Handwritten Digit String Recognition

[![Streamlit App](https://static.streamlit.io/badges/streamlit_badge_black_white.svg)](https://share.streamlit.io/kingyiusuen/handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition/streamlit/app.py)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/blob/master/.pre-commit-config.yaml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition)](https://github.com/kingyiusuen/handwritten-digit-string-recognition/blob/master/LICENSE)

![Screenshot](images/screenshot.gif)

[Web demo](https://share.streamlit.io/kingyiusuen/handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition/streamlit/app.py) (may need some time to warm up if it has not been visited for a while)

## Introduction

In this project, I built a model to perform handwritten digit string recognition using synthetic data generated by concatenating digits from the MNIST dataset. Different overlapping rates and paddings were used to increase the generalizability of the model. Data augmentation (e.g., random scaling, rotation, shear) was also used during training to increase the divesity of the samples.

Here are some examples of the synthetic data:

![Synthetic Data](images/synthetic_data.png)

I replicated the CRNN model proposed in [Shi, Bai & Yao (2015)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1507.05717.pdf), which uses a CNN as encoder and a bidirecitonal LSTM as decoder, along with a CTC loss. I was able to achieve a character error rate of 0.0114 and an accuracy of 0.9865 in the test set (see the best run [here](https://wandb.ai/kingyiusuen/handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition/runs/3r47q0f5/)).

<img src="images/model_architecture.png" alt="Model Architecture" width="320">

Model architecture, from Shi, Bai & Yao (2015)

For deployment, I built a Docker image, pushed it to Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR), created a AWS Lambda function from the container image, and finally, put a REST API gateway in front of the Lambda function.

## Setup

Create a virtual environment.

```
make venv
```

Install dependencies.

```
make install-dev
```

## Usage

### Run an experiement

Example command to run an experiment:

```
python scripts/run_experiment.py \
    trainer.gpus=1 trainer.max_epochs=100 trainer.auto_lr_find=True \
    data.batch_size=128 data.num_workers=2 data.pin_memory=True \
    data.num_train=20000 data.num_val=2000 data.num_test=2000
```

Running `scripts/run_experiment.py` will download the MNIST dataset,  generate a synthetic dataset and train a CRNN model. The best model checkpoint will be uploaded to Weights & Biases (W&B) automatically (you will be asked to register or login to W&B before the training starts).

Configurations can be modified in `config.yaml` or in command line. See [Hydra's documentation](https://hydra.cc/docs/intro) to learn more.

Example command to download a trained model checkpoint from W&B

```
python scripts/download_checkpoint.py RUN_PATH
```

Replace RUN_PATH with the path of your run. The run path can be found in the W&B dashboard and should look something like `kingyiusuen/handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition/3r47q0f5`

### Docker Image for AWS Lambda

Build a Docker image for AWS Lambda:

```
docker build -t handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition -f aws_lambda/Dockerfile .
```

Run the Docker image:

```
docker run -p 9000:8080 -it --rm handwritten-multi-digit-number-recognition
```

Example command to test the API locally:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:9000/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{ "image": "data:image/png;base64,'$(base64 -i images/test_image.png)'" }'
```

## Acknowledgements

[Full Stack Deep Learning Spring 2021 Labs](https://github.com/full-stack-deep-learning/fsdl-text-recognizer-2021-labs/tree/main)
